=head1 NAME

daemon-manager.conf - Master configuration file for Daemon Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Example configuration file
  [runs_as]
  user1: www-data
  # user2 is allowed to launch daemons but only as itself
  user2
  user3: nobody, www-data # Comments can go anywhere.

  [manages]
  user1 : user2, user3 # whitespace is generally ignored
  user3: user1


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual page describes the master config file for
L<daemon-manager(1)>. This file controls which users can launch daemons and
what users the daemons can be run as when they are launched. The file is
loaded from B<"/etc/daemon-manager/daemon-manager.conf">. It is required to be
owned by root and cannot be world or group writable.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The config file is a plain text file. Comments are stripped from lines before
they are parsed. A comment starts with a '#' and continues to the end of a
line. Blank lines are ignored.

The file consists of two sections designated by

  [runs_as]

and

  [manages]

The C<runs_as> section identifes which users are allowed to launch daemons. It
looks like this:

  bob: mary, bruce, rhonda

That line means that I<bob> is allowed to start the demons in his home
directory and have them run as I<bob>, I<mary>, I<bruce>, or I<rhonda>.  Users
are always allowed to launch daemons as themselves so there is no need to list
them on the right hand side. If you only want to allow I<bob> to launch
daemons as himself then just list him on his own line in the C<run_as>
section:

  bob

A trailing ':' is also acceptable:

  bob:

The C<manages> section allows the system administrator to appoint users that
can start and stop daemons on behalf of other users. It has the same syntax as
the C<runs_as> section:

  larry: bob, martha

That line means that I<larry> can start, stop, restart, and inspect I<bob> or
I<martha>'s daemons. He will not be able to see or control I<bruce>'s daemons,
though.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<daemon-manager(1)>, L<daemon-manager.conf(5)>, L<dmctl(1)>

=cut
